Certainly! Here is the complete list of all phrasal verbs from each part of your transcript, listed in the order they were explained:

---

### **First Quarter:**

1. **Make Over**
2. **Do Up**
3. **Make For**
4. **Make Towards**
5. **Run Up To**
6. **Run Over To**
7. **Walk Over To**
8. **Dash Over To**
9. **Shoot Over To**
10. **Make Off With**
11. **Run Off With**
12. **Make Away With**
13. **Run Away With**
14. **Make After**
15. **Run After**
16. **Hold Up**
17. **Bear Down On**

---

### **Second Quarter:**

1. **Make Up**
2. **Make Up With Someone**
3. **Fall Out With Someone**
4. **Make Something Up**
5. **Be Made Up Of**
6. **Make Up a List**
7. **Draw Up**
8. **Make Someone Into Something**
9. **Turn Into**

---

### **Third Quarter:**

1. **Make Do With Something**
2. **Make It Up To Someone**
3. **Make Up For Something**
4. **Make Out** (Perceive or Understand)
5. **Make Someone Out to Be**
6. **Make Out That**
7. **Make Out With Someone** (US Informal)
8. **Get Off With Someone** (British Informal)
9. **Make Of Something**
10. **Think Of**
11. **Think About**
12. **Hear Of**
13. **Hear About**

---

### **Fourth Quarter:**

1. **Make Over**
2. **Do Up**
3. **Brush Up On** _(Note: Corrected from "Blush Up On")_
4. **Make Do With Something**
5. **Make It Up To Someone**
6. **Make Up For Something**
7. **Compensate For Something**
8. **Make Out** (Multiple meanings including discern, claim, pretend, kiss)
9. **Get Off With Someone** (British Informal)
10. **Make Of Something**
11. **Think Of**
12. **Think About**
13. **Hear Of**
14. **Hear About**
15. **Blah Blah Blah** _(not a traditional phrasal verb, but included as used in the transcript)_

---

This list contains all of the phrasal verbs mentioned in each quarter of your transcript. If you need further clarification or more examples for any of these phrasal verbs, let me know!