Alright, in this video, we're going to take a look at how an economist thinks, because you are building the mindset of an economist, right? The way an economist thinks is absolutely critical to your studies because you're training yourself to think this way. The big idea economists have come up with to best study human behavior is that humans are going to think in a very **rational** way.

Now, right away, you might think, "That's flawed! Humans aren't _always_ rational!" And you'd be right. But the study of economics also involves making assumptions. It means we sometimes ignore that individual people might not always act this way, but generally, large groups of people _will_ behave in a predictable, rational manner.

So, what does **rational economic thinking** mean? Here we go! It's the core assumption economists make that **consumers will always seek to maximize their utility**, or their happiness and pleasure. If you're a consumer, you're looking to get the most satisfaction possible. This means you'll work hard to pay the lowest price you possibly can, because that maximizes your utility.

On the other hand, economists assume that **producers will always seek to maximize their profits**. This is an incredibly clarifying and really important idea for you to get in your head right now.

If we assume consumers maximize utility and producers maximize profits, then human behavior becomes predictable. And when we get to market equilibrium, it will take both of those assumptions into account.

Now, let's just remember, this isn't _always_ true. For example, I've bought many things where maybe I could have gotten a lower price, but I just "had to get it now". And it's also true that producers don't always maximize their profits. Think about companies like Patagonia; they don't just maximize profit, profit, profit. They spend a lot on social causes, climate care, and films. But as economists, we make these assumptions.

So, in summary, rational economic thinking means that people will make choices that, with the information and time they have, will give them the greatest amount of satisfaction. You got that? Consumers maximize utility, producers maximize profit.

This is a critical structure we're building in your mind in this Foundations of Microeconomics unit. These are like little vignettes, little pieces of information – micro, macro, rational economic thinking – that help you build the mindset of an economist. You have to think this way to make sense of what's to come. Awesome! Rational economic thinking, done with that, structure built in your mind!