In Python, functions are first-class objects. This means that functions can be passed around and used as arguments, just like any other objects (integers, strings, lists, modules, etc.). Moreover, a function can return another function. 

**Passing Functions as Arguments**

Here is an example of a function being passed as an argument to another function:

```python
def greet():
    return "Hello!"

def call_func(func):
    print(func())

call_func(greet)  # Outputs: Hello!
```

In this example, the `greet` function is passed to the `call_func` function as an argument. Inside `call_func`, `func` is invoked and its return value is printed. 

**Returning Functions from Functions**

A function can also generate and return another function. Here's an example:

```python
def make_multiplier(n):
    def multiplier(x):
        return x * n
    return multiplier

times_two = make_multiplier(2)
print(times_two(5))  # Outputs: 10
```

In this case, `make_multiplier` returns a new function that multiplies its input by `n`. The returned function is then assigned to `times_two` and can be used like any other function.

**Higher-Order Functions**

Functions that accept other functions as arguments and/or return functions as output are known as Higher-Order Functions. They are a major part of functional programming style, but are also used in non-functional styles.

The built-in functions `map`, `filter`, and `reduce` are common examples of higher-order functions in Python. For example, `map` takes a function and an iterable as arguments, and returns a new iterable where each item is the result of applying the function to the corresponding item from the input iterable.