Here is a list of phrasal verbs from the text, including expansions and related phrases:

1. **Get off on something**
    
    - Turn somebody on
    - Come on to somebody
    - Hit on somebody
2. **Turn somebody on**
    
    - Turn somebody off
3. **Come on to somebody**
    
    - Hit on somebody
    - Chat someone up
4. **Get over something**
    
    - Get over someone
    - Pull through
    - Hold up
    - Bear up
5. **Get through to somebody**
    
    - Bring somebody round
    - Get round somebody
    - Wrap somebody round your little finger
6. **Get to somewhere**
    
    - Get to work
    - Get to school
    - Get to the office
    - Get home
7. **Get at something**
    
    - Grab at something
    - Imply something
    - Mean something
8. **Get up**
    
    - Sit up
    - Stand up
    - Get up to something
9. **Get rid of something**
    
    - Dispose of something
10. **Get out of something**
    
    - Worm out of something
    - Wriggle out of something
    - Weasel out of something
11. **Get something out of something**
    
    - Derive benefit from something
12. **Get round somebody**
    
    - Bring somebody round
    - Win somebody over
    - Talk somebody into something
13. **Get somebody round**
    
    - Pop over
    - Pop round
    - Drop round
    - Call in
14. **Get round to doing something**
    
    - Find time for something
15. **Get on**
    
    - Get on with something
    - Crack on with something
16. **Get through something**
    
    - Come through something
    - Go through something
    - See something through
17. **Get in on something**
    
    - Cash in on something
    - Be in on something
18. **Get somebody down**
    
    - Bring somebody down
    - Feel blue
19. **Get down to something**
    
    - Get on with something
    - Crack on with something
20. **Get off work**
    
    - Knock off work
21. **Get mixed up with something**
    
    - Get caught up in something
    - Fall in with a bad crowd
22. **Get carried away with something**
    
    - Get worked up
23. **Come over**
    
    - An emotion takes over