Matplotlib is a Python plotting library that provides a wide variety of static, animated, and interactive plots in Python. 

First, we need to install Matplotlib with pip:
```python
pip install matplotlib
```

**Importing Matplotlib:**
The pyplot submodule from matplotlib is usually imported under the plt alias. In addition, we usually run a line to make sure that our plots are displayed inline within the Jupyter Notebook.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
%matplotlib inline
```

**Basic Plot:**
The most basic plot is the line plot. A general recipe is given here.

```python
import numpy as np

x = np.linspace(0, 10, 100)
y = np.sin(x)

plt.plot(x, y)
plt.show()
```

In this script, we first import numpy and generate two arrays for x and y coordinates. Then, we call plt.plot(x, y) to create a line plot. plt.show() is called to display the plot.

**Adding Title, and Labels:**
You can add a title to each axis and a label for the whole graph.

```python
plt.plot(x, y)
plt.title("Sine Wave")
plt.xlabel("Time")
plt.ylabel("Amplitude")
plt.show()
```

**Multiple Plots:**
Multiple plots can be drawn in one figure. Each plot will be plotted in a different color by default.

```python
y2 = np.cos(x)

plt.plot(x, y)
plt.plot(x, y2)
plt.show()
```

**Legend:**
You can use the label="label text" keyword argument when plots or other objects are added to the figure, and then using the legend method without arguments to add the legend to the figure.

```python
plt.plot(x, y, label='sin(x)')
plt.plot(x, y2, label='cos(x)')
plt.legend()
plt.show()
```

**Bar Plot:**
Here is an example of creating a bar plot.

```python
x = np.array(["A", "B", "C", "D"])
y = np.array([3, 8, 1, 10])

plt.bar(x,y)
plt.show()
```

**Scatter Plot:**
A scatter plot of y vs x with varying marker size and color.

```python
plt.scatter(x,y)
plt.show()
```

**Histogram:**
An histogram is an accurate representation of the distribution of numerical data.

```python
data = np.random.randn(1000)
plt.hist(data)
plt.show()
```

Matplotlib provides an incredible amount of functionality for creating and customizing plots, much more than can be covered here. For more information, you should check out the Matplotlib documentation.