All right, now that you've taken a look at the production possibilities here, let's lay down some terminology. OK, so microeconomics and macroeconomics, what are they? It's really simple. I'll tell you in an abstract way. Then we'll go through these two slides will be done.

Microeconomics is about you and about me. It's about the decisions that you make when you buy something if you are the consumer demander. It's if I am a producer, it's about the things and decisions that I make as a producer. One element, consumers, you. Second element, producers, me. That's what microeconomics studies. And if you were to walk into, if I'm an artisan and you want to walk in and buy one of my sculptures, right, you're going to want to pay a certain price and I'm going to want to make a certain price. And the price we agree on is where those willingness and ability to buy something or to produce something meet and we shake hands. That's market equilibrium, magic.

OK, so microeconomics studies you and me and also this ever present thing in our life, if we live in the same country, which is the government, we get that right, like parents are always involved in. Two parents are always involved in their children's lives. So in this metaphor that we're going to build and build and build and build, you've got to realize that in this household there are only two kids. One's name consumers, the other's name producers, and the government is in charge of trying to make both of them happy, but sometimes they're going to make one more happy than the other. OK, OK, microeconomics looks at the study of that.

So here, here's some economic information for you. What technical language? Microeconomics deals with smaller, discrete economic agents and their reactions to changing events. Hey, that's pretty easy. The study of microeconomics looks at the level of the individual entity: the individual firm, the individual consumer, and the individual worker. And I would add to that, of course, the government that's overseeing it. OK, that's what you're in, in general, studying in this microeconomic course.

This course is critical, and that's why you have to study it first in order to understand the next course that undoubtedly you're going to be enrolled in, which is macroeconomics. And macroeconomics looks at you and me and that agreement that we made, times all of the other individual agreements that are made in an economy over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. And oh, my goodness. Guess what? Macroeconomics, this is the, this is the country of Chile, which is a really long, thin country, right. Macroeconomics looks at all of the economic activity that's happening within that nation. That's macro. Micro's me, you. Macro's all of the little tiny decisions that are made in a geographic location, a country, and studies that. So when you look at a map from now on, you're going, you got to realize like, oh, that's not a map of countries. That's a map of macroeconomic activity, because macroeconomics is the study of economics at the countrywide level. Pretty straight, right. So if you look at South America, you would see Chile, you see Argentina, you would see Brazil, you'd see Paraguay. You'd say Uruguay. You would see Peru, you would see Bolivia, Venezuela, and on and on, right? OK, those are macro economies. So every map of the world is actually a macroeconomic map.

OK, so let's look at the specific economic language. Macroeconomics takes a wider view and considers such things as measuring all the economic activity in the economy, inflation, unemployment, and the distribution of income in the whole economy. The study of macroeconomics looks at the sum of the behaviors of all consumers (consumer sector), all firms (business sector). And of course, the government's always involved because they're in charge of the whole house.

OK, so as for your studies of microeconomics, you don't need to know this, but what you need to know is what you're not studying in microeconomics. We are not studying inflation rates. We are not studying unemployment rates. We are not studying economic growth. We are not studying the distribution of income. OK, but, but the microeconomic activity in a country when added up has massive consequences. Right. That would lead to a rise in general price levels, which is inflation, which would lead to either increased unemployment or decreased unemployment, which would lead to economic growth overall in an economy or not, which would lead to a disproportionate distribution of wealth in a nation. OK, cool. So layer, layer, layer, layer, right. Microeconomics. Now you understand it. Is that technical terms what it is. And now you understand what macroeconomics is and its technical terms. And we're rollin, rollin, rollin. On to the next video in the foundations of micro and macroeconomics.