All right, now that we've looked at micro and macro, two concepts you have to have in your head now, we're going to look at something that has two words that you put together that you might not generally understand. But after this short little video, you're going to understand perfectly, and that is the notion of positive economics and normative economics. OK, it's probably best just for us to go through the definitions so that you can take a look at it and understand it like in its technical way right away.

OK, so if you wanted to make a statement that was a positive economic statement, you would make one that may be proven to be right or wrong by looking at the facts. Facts, data, facts, a positive economic statement is based on facts like "unemployment rate in China is four percent". A positive economic statement is an analysis of "what is". Positive means it's a fact. OK, so in China, there's an unemployment rate of four percent. In the United States, there's an unemployment rate of five percent. In Argentina, there's an unemployment rate of eight percent—facts.

Now, you don't have to be a well-versed economist to know what normative might be about, because if one's about facts, what's the other one about opinion? OK, so a normative economic statement is a matter of opinion and cannot be conclusively proven to be right or wrong. For example, using China as a same example, and this comes from Jocelyn Blink's, "China ought to curb unemployment". "Ought to," "should"—that's an opinion. Right. So normative economic statements are analysis of "what ought to be". Excellent.

You might be thinking, "Why do I care?" Here's why you care. Because as an economist—and my friends, as you go through this course, you're going to become an economist—you are going to understand economics on a deeper level than 90 percent of the human beings on this planet, super cool. You're going to get economic facts: "unemployment is four percent," "a price of a certain good is five dollars," right? Those are facts. As an economist, what you need to do is take those facts and turn them into an opinion that is yours because you are the economist. Yeah. And you need to spit out or produce or evaluate or analyze what the government should do. Yeah. OK, as an economist sitting in a class, especially if you're in an IB class, listen, the IB exam, most university level exams are going to ask you to do something with the information. You don't just reproduce it. No, you have to take data, information, right, and turn it into something that's based on opinion or an evaluation.

So it's really nice to think about your role as an economist as like, pretend in all of your analysis and evaluation questions that you are actually functioning as an economist in a government working for a particular government. So I live in Chile, right? So let's say I'm an economist in the Chilean government. Now, who would want my opinion? Politicians would want my opinion. They would say, "Hey, listen, I'm running for office and our unemployment rate is eight percent. That's too high. What do you think, Mister Economist, we ought to do? Should do?" Ah, so you're going to take positive economic statements from data and you're going to turn it into economic analysis with an evaluation and a judgment that are opinions that the policymakers are then going to use to make government policy. Ah, so that's how it all connects. Yeah, exactly. OK, so that's why on this foundations of economics, we've got to have an understanding of these things. As an economist, you're going to take positive economic statements and turn them into normative economic statements by taking the economic theory that you learn and giving a valid opinion. OK, good. Positive and economic statements are critical to your studies. Onward, onward, onward we go, and our foundation of microeconomics.