The `time` module in Python provides various time-related functions. It's part of Python's Standard Library, so you don't need to install anything to use it. Here's an overview of some of the most commonly used functions and how to use them:

**time.time()**

This function returns the number of seconds passed since epoch. In Unix systems, the epoch is January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 (UTC). So, it returns a float represents the number of seconds passed since that point as seen from your system clock.

```python
import time
print(time.time())
```

**time.sleep()**

This function suspends (waits) execution of the current thread for a given number of seconds.

```python
import time
print("Printed immediately.")
time.sleep(2.4)
print("Printed after 2.4 seconds.")
```

**time.localtime()**

This function takes the number of seconds passed since epoch as an argument and returns struct_time in local time.

```python
import time
print(time.localtime(time.time()))
```

**time.gmtime()**

Similar to localtime(), this function takes the number of seconds passed since epoch as an argument and returns struct_time in UTC.

```python
import time
print(time.gmtime(time.time()))
```

**time.asctime()**

This function takes a time-tuple and returns a readable 24-character string such as 'Tue Dec 15 12:30:45 2020'.

```python
import time
print(time.asctime(time.localtime(time.time())))
```

**time.ctime()**

This function takes seconds passed since epoch as an argument and returns a string representing local time. If no argument is passed, time.ctime() behaves like time.asctime(time.localtime(time.time())).

```python
import time
print(time.ctime(time.time()))
```

**time.mktime()**

This function takes struct_time (or a tuple containing 9 parameters corresponding to struct_time) as an argument and returns the seconds passed since epoch for that struct_time.

```python
import time
t = (2020, 12, 15, 8, 59, 45, 1, 48, 0)
print(time.mktime(t))
```

This was a quick overview of some of the `time` module's most commonly used functions, but there are many others that you can use for more specific needs.