In Python, we define classes using the `class` keyword. A class is a code template for creating objects. Objects have member variables and have behavior associated with them. 

Here is a simple example of a class:

```python
class MyClass:
    x = 5
```

This class has a member variable `x` with a value `5`. You can create an object of this class like this:

```python
p1 = MyClass()
print(p1.x)
```

This will output `5`.

A class can have a special function called `__init__()` which is called when an object is created from the class. This function is called a constructor. It can be used to set up initial values for the attributes.

Here is an example with a constructor:

```python
class MyClass:
    def __init__(self):
        self.x = 5
```

The `self` parameter is a reference to the current instance of the class, and is used to access variables that belong to the class.

A class can also have methods. Methods are functions that belong to the class. Here is an example:

```python
class MyClass:
    def __init__(self):
        self.x = 5

    def print_hello(self):
        print("Hello")
```

In this example, `print_hello` is a method that prints `Hello`. You can call this method on an object like this:

```python
p1 = MyClass()
p1.print_hello()
```

This will output `Hello`.

We can also pass parameters to the `__init__()` method:

```python
class MyClass:
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

    def print_hello(self):
        print("Hello", self.name)
```

In this example, `name` is a parameter for the constructor. You can pass this parameter when creating an object:

```python
p1 = MyClass("Alice")
p1.print_hello()
```

This will output `Hello Alice`.

These are the basic concepts about defining classes in Python. In practice, classes can have more complex structures and behaviors, including inheritance, encapsulation, and polymorphism.