Special methods (or magic methods) in Python are the methods that start and end with the double underscores `__`. They are special functions that you can define to add "magic" to your classes. They are the key to operator overloading and can emulate built-in types or implement specific interfaces.

Here are a few commonly used special methods:

1. `__init__(self, ...)`: As already discussed, this method is used for initializing an object. This method is called when an object is created from a class and it allows the class to set up initial values for its attributes.

2. `__str__(self)`: This method should return a string and is called by the `str()` built-in function and by the `print` function to convert the object to a string.

```python
class Person:
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

    def __str__(self):
        return f'Person named {self.name}'

p = Person('Alice')
print(p)  # Output: Person named Alice
```

3. `__len__(self)`: This is another special method that is called by the `len()` built-in function to return the length of the object, if it's a collection of some sort.

4. `__getitem__(self, key)`: This is called to implement accessing the object with `obj[key]` notation. It's also used in iteration over the object.

5. `__setitem__(self, key, value)`: This method should set the value of the item at the given key. It allows the object to support `obj[key] = value` notation.

6. `__delitem__(self, key)`: This method should remove the item with the given key. It allows the object to support `del obj[key]` notation.

7. `__iter__(self)`: This method returns an iterator for the object. This allows an object to be iterated over with the `for...in` syntax.

8. `__contains__(self, item)`: This is called to implement membership test operators (`in` and `not in`). If this method is not defined, Python tries to iterate over the object and checks for item presence.

9. `__eq__(self, other)`, `__lt__(self, other)`, `__le__(self, other)`, `__gt__(self, other)`, `__ge__(self, other)`: These methods are called to implement comparison operators (`==`, `<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`).

10. `__add__(self, other)`, `__sub__(self, other)`, `__mul__(self, other)`, `__truediv__(self, other)`, `__floordiv__(self, other)`, `__mod__(self, other)`, `__pow__(self, other[, modulo])`: These methods are called to implement the basic numeric operations (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `//`, `%`, `**` or `pow()`).

These are just a few examples. There are many other special methods that allow you to use Python's built-in syntax and functions with your own user-defined types. Each of these methods corresponds to a specific behavior that you want your object to support.
