In Python, a module is a file containing Python definitions and statements. Python modules have a filename and end with the extension `.py`.

You can define functions, classes, and variables in your module. You can also run code in it. Modules are used to organize related code into a single script. Programs can get bigger and complicated as they grow, so organizing your code in this manner is very helpful.

Python has a lot of standard modules that you can use as the basis of your programs — or as examples to start learning to program. Some of these are explicitly designed to encourage and enhance the reusability of code.

**Importing a module**

You use the `import` keyword to do this. Here is a simple example:

```python
import math
```

In the above example, the `math` module has been imported. Now you can use the module name to access functions. For example:

```python
import math

print(math.pi)  # This will print the value of pi (3.141592653589793)
```

**Importing a specific function**

You can also choose to import only specific attributes or functions from a module by using the `from` keyword. You don't have to use the module name when you call such a function. Here is an example:

```python
from math import pi

print(pi)  # This will print the value of pi (3.141592653589793)
```

**Renaming a module**

You can import a module by renaming it as follows:

```python
import math as m

print(m.pi)  # This will print the value of pi (3.141592653589793)
```

In the above example, the `math` module is imported and renamed as `m`. Now, you can refer to the `math` module with this name.

**Importing all names**

You can import all methods and attributes of a specific module into the current namespace by using the following command:

```python
from math import *

print(pi)  # This will print the value of pi (3.141592653589793)
```

Note: Using this form of import is generally discouraged as it makes unclear which names are present in the namespace. It's better to either import the module and use the dot notation or import only specific functions if needed.